Add intro to Docker in tutorials (#1273)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: tutorials/5-docker-intro/index.md

---
parent:
  title: Docker Introduction
  description: Get started with Docker
  number: 
tags:
  - tutorial
  - dev-ops
order: 0
title: Docker introduction
---

<div class="tm-overline tm-rf-1 tm-lh-title tm-medium tm-muted">Know your way around Docker</div>
<h1 class="mt-4 mb-6">Docker Introduction</h1>

> [Docker](https://www.docker.com) is a kind of virtualization, with performance benefits.

Reviewer: @xavierlepretre Can we qualify "virtualization"?

"Docker is a kind of XXXXXXXX virtualization with performance benefits."

Author: Yes

## Concepts

> Being different, Docker introduces new concepts with their own vocabulary.

Reviewer: Different from what?

Author: In the field of computer virtualisation, being different from classical virtualisation...

something like that...

### Your own image

Suppose you need a Node container with the `curl` command available. For that, you need to **build** your own image. It so happens that `node:lts-slim` is built on Debian, so you can use `apt-get` to install new programs.

Create a new file named `Dockerfile` with:

```Dockerfile
FROM node:lts-slim

RUN apt-get update
RUN apt-get install -y curl
```

You have to `update` the package registry because the image is kept slim by not even having a local copy. Build your new image with a name of your choosing:

```sh
$ docker build . -t node-with-curl:lts-slim
```

Now your image is ready. Can you call up `curl`? Type:

```sh
$ docker run -it --entrypoint curl node-with-curl:lts-slim
```

It should return:

```txt
Use "--help category" to get an overview of all categories.
For all options use the manual or "--help all".
```

So yes, you now have `curl` and Node on the same container.

### Hello World

What if you wanted to use Node to print `Hello World`? Create the Javascript file that can do that:

```sh
$ echo "console.log(\"Hello World\");" > test.js
```

Now pass it to your container:

```sh

> $ docker run -i node:lts-slim test.js

Reviewer: @xavierlepretre - apologies for stepping outside of language review territory! But on this line, is it possible that **-i** should be **-it**?

I ask because the instructions/changes for lines 162-167 don't specify precisely what is being changed, and I see two differences; whereas 176-179 does specify one precise change, removing the "-t".

Author: Yep, please put the `t`. From my testing, there is no difference. Not sure why there was none here.

```

It should complain again:

```txt
Error: Cannot find module '/test.js'
```

For that, you have to also tell it to work (`-w`) in the right folder: `/root/temp` that you created to access your local files:

```sh
$ docker run -it -v $(pwd):/root/temp -w /root/temp node:lts-slim test.js
```

This time it returns:

```txt
Hello World
```

## Clean up

You ran quite a few commands. Where did you containers go?

```sh
$ docker ps --all
```

You should see a long list like:

```txt
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE           COMMAND                  CREATED          STATUS                        PORTS     NAMES
b5930aef7e7a   node:lts-slim   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   2 minutes ago    Exited (0) 2 minutes ago                angry_babbage
e3f58f2cb118   node:lts-slim   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   5 minutes ago    Exited (0) 5 minutes ago                affectionate_elgamal
...
```

All stopped and exited. When you create a container, it is not removed by default so it can be reused (see `docker exec --help`). For now, you will clean up these pointless containers (if you have containers that are not part of this introduction, do not run the command):

```sh
$ docker container prune
```

> Having a ton of stopped containers is not ideal, which is why when you want to run a container for a single command, the practice is to add `--rm`, like so:

Reviewer: The practice is to add `--rm` ... because this automatically **removes** the container? Y/"N? And if so, when is the container removed?

Author: Yes it removes.
The container is removed at the moment it is stopped and exited.

As opposed to proper virtualization, containerization is fast:

* You do not need to start a whole operating system, only to isolate a new container and run its own programs. You now count the start-up time in seconds instead of minutes.
* The memory used by the container is only that of the programs it runs while benefiting from the rest of the Linux system in an isolated way.

### Images

Instead of a virtual disk with a full operating system, a container starts from an **image**. The image contains the files that are specific to the container and different from its Linux host. Think of tracing paper recording only the differences laid on top of the host's file system. These can be very small.

You can either create images locally via a **`Dockerfile`** containing the commands that create the image, or you can use an existing image. There are registries that store and/or reference them, like your regular package manager. [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) is the main one, and your local Docker knows how to download directly from it.

> This introduces an interesting concept whereby [a machine is described as a file](https://twitter.com/FrancescoCiull4/status/1509458241524224005). This is very useful for reproducibility and DevOps. Further, the images are optimized so that each image is a _diff_ of a parent one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This introduces an interesting concept whereby [a machine is described as a file](https://nitter.net/FrancescoCiull4/status/1509458241524224005). This is very useful for reproducibility and DevOps. Further, the images are optimized so that each image is a _diff_ of a parent one.
```

:trollface:

Author: What's the advantage of nitter?

As opposed to proper virtualization, containerization is fast:

* You do not need to start a whole operating system, only to isolate a new container and run its own programs. You now count the start-up time in seconds instead of minutes.
* The memory used by the container is only that of the programs it runs while benefiting from the rest of the Linux system in an isolated way.

### Images

Instead of a virtual disk with a full operating system, a container starts from an **image**. The image contains the files that are specific to the container and different from its Linux host. Think of tracing paper recording only the differences laid on top of the host's file system. These differences can be very small.

You can either create images locally via a **`Dockerfile`** containing the commands that create the image, or you can use an existing image.

<HighlightBox type="info">

> Some registries store and/or reference them, like your regular package manager. [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) is the main one, and your local Docker knows how to download directly from it.

Author: ```suggestion
There exist registries that store and/or reference them, like your regular package manager. [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) is the main one, and your local Docker knows how to download directly from it.
```

### Images

Instead of a virtual disk with a full operating system, a container starts from an **image**. The image contains the files that are specific to the container and different from its Linux host. Think of tracing paper recording only the differences laid on top of the host's file system. These differences can be very small.

You can either create images locally via a **`Dockerfile`** containing the commands that create the image, or you can use an existing image.

<HighlightBox type="info">

> Some registries store and/or reference them, like your regular package manager. [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com) is the main one, and your local Docker knows how to download directly from it.

Author: I think you changed the meaning. I want to say:

> There exist registries that...

You changed it to

> We all know there are registries and some store and/or reference them.

The problem is that it is not obvious that there would be registries. And storing or referencing them is all they do anyway, some only reference, some do both. So it is not like some registries do nothing, others store/reference and others do more than that.

If changing, I would go with a variation on:

> There exist registries that ...

Reviewer 3: @xavierlepretre feel free to change back. 😉

What if you do not have a Linux operating system? Not to worry, Docker simplifies your life by installing and running a virtual machine running a barebones Linux on your host computer.

After installation, when you want to use Docker, you _start Docker_ - you start the virtual machine running Linux, which is the part that takes time. After it has started, you can use commands to run containers. When you no longer need to use Docker, you can stop it and regain the memory it used.

In these tutorials, you will come across a lot of Docker commands, so it makes sense to familiarize yourself with them.

First, [install it](https://www.docker.com/get-started). Next start Docker.

When it has started you can run your first container. For instance, with Node.js' `lts-slim` image:

```sh
$ docker run -it node:lts-slim
```

> `-it` is short for `--interactive --tty` and means "with input and output", instead of a fully detached container. Learn more with `docker run --help`. This should return you a Node (Node.js) prompt:

Author: ```suggestion
`-it` is short for `--interactive --tty` and means "with input and output", instead of a fully detached container. Learn more with `docker run --help`. This should return you a Node.js prompt:
```

...
```

All have stopped and exited. When you create a container, it is not removed by default so it can be reused (see `docker exec --help`). For now, you should clean up these pointless containers - **however**, if you have containers that are not part of this introduction, do not run the command:

```sh
$ docker container prune
```

> <HighlightBox tyep="best-practice">

Author: ```suggestion
<HighlightBox type="best-practice">
```
